1.1)
The link layer lies above the physical layer, but under the network layer. Its main function is to send frames from node to node in a network, based on MAC-addresses (mainly). The ethernet-protocol and WiFi 802.11-protocol are the most used link layer protocols. 
1.2)
TDM: In TDM you partition in N time slots, where N is the amount of hosts connected to the link. Each sublink is given a equal share of the time slots, and can only transmit data (the time slots are constructed such that 1 time slot equals the time to transmit 1 frame) during this time slot. This guarantees a throughput of R/N.
FDM: The channel is partioned into frequencies, where again each host gets it fair share of the frequency. This allows from simultanious transmitting, but again, the hosts are limited to an average throughput of R/N bps.
CDMA: In CDMA each host gets a unique code used when transmitting data, and allows hosts to use the whole bandwidth (given there are no other hosts transmitting in the network). Maximum throughput would be R (the whole channel) and minimum would be R/N.
1.3)
x = 1101
y = 0100
z = 1
1.4)
R = 001
R is sent together with the data, and is appended to the data along with the generator. 
1.5)
ARP is a protocol (kind of between the link and network layer) that is used to lookup the physical (MAC) address of hosts and map it to an IP-address. This is needed so that the link layer knows to which MAC-address it should send a frame to. The ARP-table is located on any hosts network interface.
1.6)
You will find MAC-addresses, along with wich interface this host resides on.

2.1)
The network layer main function is to provide functionality for a datagram to be sent between hosts that lies on the network (end-to-end). The most common protocol is IP, and the network layer provides routing for IP-datagrams (where should the datagram be sent). Every machine that has a network interface card resides in the network layer, so routers, hosts, servers etc. 
2.2)
Fragmentation in internet means to basically split an IP-datagram into smaller IP-datagrams, because for example the link layer cant handle a datagram of a certain size. At the next machine (after it has traversed one link) the fragments are reconstructed. It is used for IPv4 to split big datagrams into smaller ones, as stated above.
2.3) The fragments are assembled at the network layer, either in a router or when the datagram finally reaches its destination.
2.4) Each fragmented datagram has the MF (more fragments) bit set in the header, while the last one has it set to 0. It also uses a fragment offset (measured in 8-byte blocks), meaning if you get the last fragment before other fragments it knows when it has all fragments. It also has a ID, so that multiple fragmented datagrams can be distinguished.
2.5)
It sends a ICMP back to the source that the datagram is too large, and request a smaller datagram.
2.6)
$2**10 = 1024$
$2**11 = 2048$
So the largest number (smallets network address) is 223.1.8.0/21.
2.7)
135.46.189.128 -> interface 1
135.46.50.20 -> interface 3
135.46.146.30 -> interface 3
135.46.145.7 -> interface 2
135.46.130.35 -> interface 0

3.1)
