# Exam 2018

## Problem 1

### Task 1

The heap manages dynamic memory allocations in low level languages in C. Heap overflow is when you access/overwrite data that lies in the heap. For example, if you have two dynamically allocated memory areas next to each other on the heap, the first area can (with malicous code/instructions) overwrite the other areas data. To protect Against heap overflow you can implement checks to check if you are trying to write outside the allocated memory (sanity checks). You can introduce randomization so that the heap doesn't begin at a fixed offset/blocks isn't allocated next to each other. Lastly you can e.g add a no-execute bit to a memory area to indicate that instructions/code from this area should not be executed.

### Task 2

The vigenere method is based on shift cipher, but instead of using a single character as the key, you use a string of characters. Then you line up the key string with the plaintext and shift encrypt each letter of the plaintext with the current character in the key. For encryption: $c = (m + k_i) mod 26$, for decryption $m = (m - k_i) mod 26$. This was thought to be secure because a key of lenght n has a spacial complexity of $26^n$, which for large n is computationally infeasible. However, because of letter frequency it is easy to crack. Since the letters are just shifted, the letter frequency distribution will be the same. Given a large enough plaintext and small enough key. First you brute force the lenght of the key. If a key of size n is used, every n-th char of plaintext will be encrypted using the same letter. Start by grouping the letter encrypted with the same letter (for n=2 every other letter of cipher is grouped togehter) and look at the letter frequency distribution. Do this a number of times and pick the length that gives the greatest mean similarity to the english letter frequency distribution. You have then guessed the length. To find the letter, simply look at the distribution for the given letter and pick a letter that translates it to the corresponding english letter.

### Task 3

SSL/TLS: Confidentiality is acquired by the two communicating parts agree on a secret key (symmetric key) which is used to encrypt the message transmitted. Since no other parts know the key, confidentiality is fulfilled. This however does not stop people from tampering with the data. For this you can use HMAC (hash-message-authentication-code). This involves the two parts agreeing on a second key used for hasing the message. Hashing the message generates a tag that you send along with the message. The receiving part can then decrypt the message, and then hash the message with the secret key and check if the hash generated and hash received are the same. If  they are, the receiver can be confident that the message has not been tampered with.

### Task 4

The handshake process start with the two clients agreeing on a secret key used to encrypt the message being sent. Say Alice sends Bob a message. To securely send agree on the key (confidentiality), Alice initates contact with Bob. Bob tells Alice which types of encryption algorithms he supports. Alice chooses one and generates a secret private key. Alice then encrypts this key using Bob's public key. Bob recieves this and decrypts with his private key. A shared secret key is then established and Alice can begin sending the message using this key.

### Task 5

DAC suffers from not having any way of controlling confidentiality. The owner is the one giving access to assets, so if by mistake the owner shares a confidential asset with a subject that does not have that clearance level, confidentiality is broken. Also, a vulnerability is that a subject with a high clearance can write to assets with low classification. This can be a vulnerability since the high clearance subject often has access to assets that others should not have. An exploit could be to get the subject to run a script that writes to a low classified file the content of a high classified file.
The Bell-LaPadula model helps with this because firstly it is an mandatory access control model, which means access is centrally administrated. Secondly, it introduces the concepts of no-read-up and no-write-down. Each asset is marked with a confidentiality level and each subject is marked with clearance level. If a high clearance subject tries to write to a low confidential asset, he is now allowed. Similary, if a subject with low clearance tries to read an asset with high clearance, he is not authorized.

### Task 8

BSIMM is a tool for developers and security engineers to measure how they rank with other companies relating to IT security workflows, activities etc. BSIMM contains a list of activities, in which a company is almost certain to find activities that match their workflow.

### Task 9

XXE exploits the improperly configured vulnerability by declaring external entities (data that can be used across different xml documents) in the xml document. When parsing and rendering the XML document, e.g sensitive information could be disclosed. For example, you can declare an external entity that fetches the content of the /etc/passwd file, leaking sensitive information. The vulnerability appears when a user is able to submit xml documents. A fix is to use a safe xml library, like defusedxml, and disallow the usage of external entities and DTD (dcoument type definitions).

### Task 10

A salt is a randomly generated string that is concatenated with the password before hashing. This ensures that two passwords that are the same get a different (unique) hashed value. This helps against offline dictionary attacks (given the attacker tries to find all passwords), since the salt makes the hash unqiue and therefore can be recognized by a dictionary of commonly used password hashes. The salt is still available, and if the attacker focuses on just one user, it does not make a big difference. It does not defend against online attacks if you just brute force the login. It defends more against online attacks that make use of SQL injection. The attacker cannot see the salt, so for each common password, he has to the hash with a salt also, making it infeasable to attack.

## Problem 2

### Task 2.1

There are 2 vulnerabilites here. The first one is that it used a unsafe cryptographic hash-function to "hide" the information. MD-5 is shown to have a lot of crashes and easlity exploited. Secondly, and more importantly, the session ID is generated from a predictable source. If an attacker gets access to the users of the app, he can generate the hash himself and impersonate (spoof) all users. Also, since MD-5 is easy to crack, if the session ID is exposed, an attacker can use this to find out the username. The token does never expire either.
The fix is to use a secure PRNG to generate the token, not based on predictable values. One should also change the hash algorithm to sha-3 or argon2.

### Task 2.2

I assume there is no CSRF validation. Also, it echos the input back to the user, meaning it does not validate the input. We have assumed change_address() is safe, but the app is still suspicable for stored xss. In addition, if there is no CSRF validation, an attacker could lure a user to click on a link that sends a post request to the endpoint with a script embeded in the post data. This script could for example log a users session id or other sensitive information.
A fix is to ensure csrf validation by including a token in the form e.g. Secondly, proper validation of the input should be implemented, e.g by substituting < and > with &lt and &gt.

### Task 2.3

The vulnerability is that the token has a long expiry time. time() in php returns the unix timestamp (seconds sine 1st January 1970). Multiplying this with 3600 give a data that is very far into the future, meaning the id never expires. Instead of multiplying, change it to addtion. The token is then only valid for the next hour.

### Task 2.4

The webpage is suspicable to reflected cross site scripting. The javascript does not do any checks of the context parameter, and an attacker can inject malicous code in the url, for example by sending them a mail with the url. A possible fix is to properly validate the context and escape any dangerous characters.

### Task 2.5

The code is vulnerable to path traversal. The $page argument can be used to supply a path, and if the server is not properly configured, can leak e.g the /etc/passwd file. Can be mitigated by validating the input by only accepting good characters. Use chroot jails to ensure data outsoude the directory is read/written to.

## Problem 3

### Task 3.1

Business assets: The mobile app, the web application/server, the bluetooth device, the external sd card on the phone, personal and sensitive information for both the therapist and patient.

Business goals:

- Have an uptime of 99% on the server.
- Reduce physical meetings between patient and therapist
- Make treatment more effective
- Provide a value to the society
- Obtain positive patient and therapist feedback
- Have a solid statistical model

Business risks:

BR1: Server is unavailable, meaning patients can't submit data and therapists can't view the data.
BR2: Transmission of data is unintuitive
BR3: Patients doesn't feels the system is ineffective.
BR4: The statistical model is inaccurate
BR5: personal and sensitive information is disclosed
BR6: Data is wrongly transmitted
BR7: Therapists are not professional

### Task 3.2

By creating a misuse-case we can get an overview over the different ways an attacker might attack either the webapp or the mobile app. By creating attack trees for some cases of misuse, we can get a more detailed view of how an attacker might attack.

TR1: Data is sent over an unencrypted channel (BR6).
TR2: Injection attacks on the server (BR5, BR4, BR1)
TR3: A DoS attack on the server makes it unavailable (BR1)
TR4: External SD card is stolen or comprimised (BR5)
TR5: Clickjacking on the web app sends data to attacker (BR5, BR6)
TR6: An attacker feeds garbage to the statistical model (BR4)
TR7: Hacker gets access to therapists account (BR5)
TR8: XSS attack when attacker sends mail to patient (BR5, BR7)
TR9: Therapist access data of patient that are not his (BR5)
TR10: Insufficient file validation when uploading (BR1, BR2)

### Task 3.3

SR1: Transmission of data between phone and server should use an encrypted channel.
TC1:

1. With a network proxy, capture a packet sent from the phone (ER: a packet should be seen).
2. Check that the data is encrypted (unreadable). (ER: using e.g wireshark, the data is unreadable).

This allows for usage of https/ftps and alike.

SR2.1: Inserting data to the database should be safe.
SR2.2: Data uploaded to the server should be properly validated.
TC2:

1. When logging into the web server, try setting "' OR 1=1 --" as either the password or username. (ER: you get a failed login attempt)
2. Upload modified data, e.g a field containing "'--; DROP TABLE users;" to the web server. (ER: the data is rejected, the database does not change).

SR3.1: The server should be configured to handle many requests at once.
SR3.2: The server should block spammed requests.

TC3:

1. With a tool, send a lot of legitimate requests to the server (ER: nothing happens, normal operation)
2. Send thousands of requests per second to the server (ER: after some time, the server blocks the requests)

SR4: SD card should be encrypted.
TC4:

1. Store some data on the SD card (ER: data is stored)
2. Remove the SD card and try to read the data (ER: the data is encrypted and not readable)

SR5.1: The web server should be configured to not be spoofed.
SR5.2: The UI code should have defense mechanisms to ensure it is always at topmost level

TC5:

1. Create a simple html document with an iframe pointing to the web server (ER: nothing shows, iframe disallowed)

SR6: Data used in the model should be sanitized

TC6:

1. Upload garbage to the web server (ER: data is uploaded and stored)
2. Observe that the results the model gives back (ER: the results does not change)

### Task 3.4

Data that can identify a person: Credit card number, name, email address, CV, office address, bank account number, age, gender, medical information.

Company A should keep privacy in mind when developing the app.
To be transparent, they can allow for a patient to see which therapists has access to their medical information. This also helps keeping control over who has access to what.
Fair use: company A should not use any of the information other than to identify a person.
Minimalization: company A can argue that the information collected is the minimum amount for them to correctly asses a patient and for the service to function properly.
