# Exam 2019

## Problem 1

### Task 1.1

Instead of concatenating the sql query with an input string, you can use prepared statements, which is supplied by the database engine. This allows for compiling a query with placeholder statements. The engine then knows that e.g a string should go here, and does the correct escaping etc. Bind variables are these placeholder statements. They help because the cursor expects a type of statement, so you can't escape a query with "--" or "' OR 1=1".

### Task 1.2

Store in URL
pros:

- Easy to implement

cons:

- easy to expose, for example if the user is copying the link and sending it to friends without removing the session token, the token is exposed and could be exploited.

Use hidden form inputs.

Pros:

- Relatively easy to implement

Cons:

- You have to make sure the hidden form element is included in every page
- It does not protect against csrf attacks and is subject to xss attacks

Use cookies
Pros:

- Has many security features, like httpOnly which safe guards against xss attacks for stealing session id
- can help with csrf attacks

Cons:

- Harder to implement
- Has to be configured correctly to be secure

### Task 1.3

In csrf attacks, you make a request to the legit app by browsing another.
To test for this you can:

1. Assume you have a website with an endpoint that can do harm to an account, e.g a GET request to /account/del deletes the current users account.
2. Create a plain html site with only a link linking to yoursite.com/account/del
3. Create a dummy user and log in with that user
4. Go to the other html page and click the link
5. If the account has been deleted the webapp is exposed to csrf attacks.

### Task 1.4

A clickjacking attack is an attack where an attacker embeds a legitimate site into their malicous site, and adds a transparent layer that hijacks the client's clicks. The attacker could for example use iframe to get the legimate site, and then place a button executing malicous code over a legimate button, but set the illegitimate button's opacity to 0, thus making it invisible.
To defend against clickjacking, you can use the header X-Frame-Options to disallow the usage of iframes. Also ensure that the UI has defensive code so that it is always displayed on the topmost level.

### Task 1.5

ECB (Electronic Codebook) is insecure because it uses the same key for blocks of plaintext. This is not necessarily a problem when the plaintext has a big variance between blocks, but when blocks are alike, they are encrypted with the same key, which reveleas information about the plaintext (since they will approximately be the same). To fix this, one should use CBC (cipher block chaining), which takes also takes in an initialization vector (which is xored with the first block), then encrypts with the key and then the encrypted message is used as the IV for the next block.

### Task 1.6

Digital signature is a way to digitally sign (verify that you are the sender) a document. To do this, you need a trapdoor function F and it's inverse F^-1. Start by hashing the document with an established key. Then you sign the hash using F^-1 and your asymmetric secret key. Send both the signature and the document. Then, the recipient uses the F function on the signature with the senders public key. Then he hashes the document and checks if the two hashes are the same. If they are, the recipient can be confident that the sender is the true sender.
Now, how to the receiver know that the senders public key, is in fact owned by the sender? Certificate Authorities manage this. They deliver certificates to clients. This works by the end-user generating a key-pair, and sending the public key along with identity to a CA. The CA verifies the information and signs it using it's private key. Anyone can then use the CA's public key to verify a subject's public key.
All browsers are installed with a number of CA's public keys, and also generates a keypair when installed. In the SSL handshake, a digital signature can be used to verify that the sender is the real sender, and for a recipient, they can verify this by checking with the CA.

### Task 1.7

The Biba-model is a part of MAC-model (mandatory access control), where subjects and objects are assigned access classes. In the Biba model, there are two main points: No-write-up and no-read-down. This means that subjects with low access are not able to write to higher classified objects. Secondly, it means that subjects with high access classes are not able to read objects with lower access classes. This helps with integrity because a less "important" subject can not write to a more trustworthy object. Similary, important subjects can not read objects that are less trustworthy, and therefore integrity is upheld.

### Task 1.8

In SSO you have the end-user who is the one logging in, the service provider, which could be a webserver like blackboard, and an identity provider, which is the one dealing with authentication, and keeps data about the user.

The process of SSO is quite simple.

1. An end user want to log in on the service provider.
2. The service provider redirects the user to the identity provider.
3. At the identity provider, it is checked whether the user is already logged in, in which case the user is redirected back to the service provider along with a token. If the user is not logged in, they are prompted for username/password.
4. If the username/password is correct, the user is redirected back to the service provider along with a session token. The user is now logged in.
5. The session token is relayed back to the end-users browser.

## Problem 2

### Task 2.1

The code in line 2 is vulnerable to path traversal attacks. Even though you supply a absolute path in line 1, the filepath variable (which I assume is unvalidated) can traverse upwards, for example by "../..". Using this you can get to the /etc/passwd file for example. To fix this, make sure to use chroot jails, and also only allow good characters, do not sanitize.

### Task 2.2

There are several vulnerabilities. Firstly, there is missing access control in the user_profile function. If you know the userid of another user (in which this case is predictable), you can access and change information about that user. Neither is there a check if the password is correct before doing the changes. To fix this, there should be introduced some session management, e.g with django's own session/authentication system, and check if the user currently logged in is the same as the one being edited.
Another vulnerability is that the form is not validated, and could therefore be subject to stored XSS. For example, a malicous user may find another user id, and change the name of this user to e.g "><script>malicousFunction()</script>. To fix this, make sure to validate the data, perhaps by using form.is_valid() (which also cleans the data).

### Task 2.3

The vulnerability is that it uses deserialization of untrusted data. The buffer could contain some malicous code that gets executed in readObject(). To fix this, validate the input before reading it.

### Task 2.4

The code in line 2 is subject to XPath injection. You can bypass the check since the input is not validated, and is concatednated with the query. To fix this, use prepared statements and bind variables.

### Task 2.5

The code is vulnerable in line 6 to serverside request forgery. The url to redirect to is fetched from the request parameter, but not validated. A malicous user could e.g use an url like file:/// to access the file system of the server. To fix this, it should check the url and only accept safe urls.

## Problem 3
