# Exam 2018

## Problems

1) Embedded systems often have fixed performance requirements. Correct.
2) Cache size is not defined by ISA. Correct.
3) stack is used for all of the above. Correct.
4) there is no bug in the function call. Correct.
5) Machines with 32-bit addresses have smaller memory space, therefore they lose higher fraction of their memoery to I/O. Correct.
6) It relieves CPU from controlling the data transfer between memory and I/O devices. Correct.
7) Pipelining reduces the clocks per instructions (CPI), hence execution time is also reduced. Correct.
8) SRAM is faster than DRAM. Correct.
9) By keeping the most frequently used data in a fast memory. Correct.
10) Direct mapped caches do not need a replacement policy. Correct.
11) Tag: 20, Index: 9, Byte offset: 3. Correct.
12) VM prevents Operating System to access memory ysed by the user programs. Correct.
13) VPN: 21 bits, Page offset: 11 bits, Physical page number: 19 bits. Correct.
14) \*number \*= \*number. Correct.
15) myList.listHead->value. Correct.
16) 0x11. Correct.
17) static analysis. Wrong, run-time.
18) uint8_t. Correct.
19) The linker issues an error, because the symbol foo_bar is not defined. Correct.
20) All of the above statements are false. Correct.
21) 4 registers are needed. Correct.
22) A process can never go from running to ready state. Correct.
23) All of the above are valid mechanisms for inter process communication. Correct.
24) Ability to use more energy. Correct.
25) Reduce dynamic power consumption. Correct.
