# Exam 2017

## Task 1

a)
For A:
For B: R B
For C: G R
For D: B
For E:
For F: R

b) A, E, C

c) E

d) R

## Task 2

We first have to convert the FOL to CNF. $R_3$ and $R_4$ are already on CNF.

**For $R_1$**
First remove the implication:
$\forall x \ \neg allergies(x) \vee sneeze(x)$
Negation are already only on literals, it is then safe to do universal instansiation.
$\neg allergies(x) \vee sneeze(x)$
$R_1$ is now on CNF.

**For $R_2$**
First remove the implication:
$\forall x \ \forall y \ \neg(cat(y) \wedge allergicToCats(x)) \vee allergies(x)$
Then, move negation to literals, performing DeMorgans law:
$\forall x \ \forall y \ \neg cat(y) \vee \neg allergicToCats(x) \vee allergies(x)$
It is already distributed, so we can perfrom universal instansiation which yields the CNF:
$\neg cat(y) \vee \neg allergicToCats(x) \vee allergies(x)$

We wish to find out whether $sneeze(Mary)$ is true. For that we need the negated goal: $\neg sneeze(Mary)$

First we use $R_2$ and $R_3$:
$\neg cat(y) \vee \neg allergicToCats(x) \vee allergies(x) \vee cat(Felix)$

We perform unification with $\theta = \{y/Felix\}$ which resolves to
$\neg allergicToCats(x) \vee allergies(x)$

Then we use $R_4$:
$\neg allergicToCats(x) \vee allergies(x) \vee allergicToCats(Mary)$

in which we unify with $\theta = \{x/Mary\}$ which resolves to:
$allergies(Mary)$

Then we can use $R_1$:
$allergies(Mary) \vee \neg allergies(x) \vee sneeze(x)$

where we use $\theta = \{x/Mary\}$ which resolves to:
$sneeze(Mary)$

We finally use our negated goal:
$sneeze(Mary) \vee \neg sneeze(Mary)$
which resolves to the empty clause, which is a contradiction. Therefore Mary does sneeze.

## Task 3

a)
S = 5
A = 4
B = 5
C = 2
D = 4
E = 7
F = 5
G = 7
H = 5
I = 9
J = 2
K = 8
L = 4

b) B is the best move for max, assuming optimal play by both sides, this yields a utility of 5.

c) L4, L8, L15, L16, L18, L19, L20, l21, L22, L23.

## Task 4

a) The queue is a priorty queue, where the first element is the next element

1. Expanded: S, Frontier: [B, A]
1. Expanded: B, Frontier: [C, A]
1. Expanded: C, Frontier: [A, G]
1. Expanded: A, Frontier: [G]
1. Expanded: G, Frontier: []

The returned path is S, B, C, G. This is an optimal solution. I have assumed the graph version of A\* which allows reexpansion of nodes if necessary. The solution is cost-optimal. This is because the heuristic used is admissible, and we allow reexpanasion, which guarantees that A* will find a cost-optimal solution.

b) None of the above will yield a consistent heuristic.

c) {h(S) = 7, h(A) = 6, h(B) = 5, h(c) = 3, h(G) = 0}
Which yileds the cost-optimal path [S, B, C, G]

d) True, it uses the heuristic function h(n) = 0

e) True

## Task 5

a) False

b) 4

c) 3

d) Valid

e) 1

f) 5 none

## Task 6

a) True T
b) False (T)
c) False (F)
d) True T
e) False F
f) False F
g) False T
h) True F
i) True T
j) None None

## Task 7

a) True T
b) 2 1
c) 2 3
d) False F
e) 3 3
f) 1 2
g) 2 3
h) 4 4
