# Exam 2018

## Task 1

1 ) see notes

2 ) 
D(L1) = {A1, B1, A2, B2}
D(L2) = {A1, B1, C1, A2, B2, C2}
D(L3) = {A1, A2}
D(L4) = {C1, C2}
D(L5) = {B1, B2, C1, C2}

3 )
C1: Alldiff(L1, L2, L3, L4, L5)
C2: Day(L1) < Day(L2)
C3: Day(L3) < Day(L5)

4 ) No, not arc-consistent.
D(L1) = {B1}
D(L2) = {A2, B2, C2}
D(L3) = {A1}
D(L4) = {C1, C2}
D(L5) = {B2, C2}

5 )
The 1. assigned variable is L1 and its value is B1
The 2. assigned variable is L3 and its valye is A1
The 3. assigned variable is L4 and its value is C1
The 4. assigned variable is L5 and its value is B2
The 5. assigned variable is L2 and its value is A2

## Task 2
a = 6
b = 8
c = 9
d = 8
e = 10
f = 9
g = 4
h = 9
i = 9
j = 6
k = 8
l = 4
s = 8

2 ) 
PRUNE E because D=6 >= beta = 6
PRUNE H, I because G=9 >= beta=6
PRUNE K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R because J = 8 >= beta = 6 wrong, think that it could be lower in other subtrees
PRUNE T, U, W, X, V, Y, Z1, Z2 because S = 4 <= alpha = 8

## Task 3

1. True F
2. False F
3. False F
4. False (T)
5. True F
6. True T
7. False F
8. True (F)
9. True T
10. False F

## Task 4

1 )
Expanded nodes: S, B, E, F
Returned path: S, B, F

2 )
Expanded nodes: S (with early goal test)
Returned Path: S, D

3 )
Expanded nodes: S, C, B, G
Returned Path: S, C, G

4 )
Expanded nodes: S, D
Returned Path: S, D

5 )
Expanded nodes: S, C, G
Returned Path: S, C, G

## Task 5

1 )
H1: Admissible because it never overestimates, but not consistent because h(S) is not smaller or equal to h(A) + cost(S, A)
H2: Not admissible because it overestimates for h(A), it is followingly not consistent either.
H3: It is both admissible and consistent
H4: It is admissible but it is not consistent.

2 ) A heuristic function $h_1(n)$ dominates another heuristic $h_2(n)$ if for every node n we have that $h_1(n) \geq h_2(n)$. This is for admissible heuristics.

3 ) No, they do not. $h_3(S) < h_4(S)$ but $h_3(A) > h_4(A)$

4 ) Yes, $h_4(S) > h_1(S)$ and $h_4(A) > h_1(A)$.

## Task 6

We get 4 rules in our KB:

$$
\begin{aligned}
R_1:& \ (B2 \wedge W3) \vee  (W2 \wedge B3)\\
&\equiv (B2 \vee (W2 \wedge B3)) \wedge (W3 \vee (W2 \wedge B3))\\
&\equiv (B2 \vee W2) \wedge (B2 \vee B3) \wedge (W3 \vee W2) \wedge (W3 \vee B3)  \\
R_2:& \ (B3 \wedge W4) \vee  (W3 \wedge B4)\\
&\equiv (B3 \vee W3) \wedge (B3 \vee B4) \wedge (W4 \vee W3) \wedge (W4 \vee B4)   \\
R_3:& \ B4\\
R_4:& \ \neg(B1 \wedge B4)\\
&\equiv \neg B1 \vee \neg B4
\end{aligned}
$$

Notice that everything is on CNF from. We wish to ask if bunny 1 is white, i.e if W1 is true. We negate the goal $\neg W1$

We resolve R4 and R3 to:
$\neg B1$
Notice that $\neg B1 \equiv W1$
We can then resolve with the goal:
$W1 \vee \neg W1$ which resolves to the empty clause, meaning we have a contradiction. Followlingly the statement is true, meaning bunny 1 is white.

## Task 7

1 )

|F1\F2|A|B|
|---|---|---|
|A|1, 1-x|1-y,1-y|
|B|1-y,1-y|1,1-x|

2 ) It arises if one action for farm1 dominates the other action, and if one action for farm2 dominates the other. For farm1, action A dominates action B if the payoff for doing A is better than for B, given that farm 2 does the same action. If we consider x and y to be constants, then noone is dominating.

## Task 8

1 ) Randomness can be rational in unknown environments. It is also good for stochastic environments. Take for instance a guess the number game. If you know that I pick the same all the time, the game quickly becomes boring.

2 ) It means that we cant be sure that it actually entails, since first-order is not definitive. 

3 ) Remove implication
$\forall Y \ \neg (\forall X \ taller(Y,X) \vee wise(X)) \vee wise(Y)$
Move negation inwards:
$\forall Y \ (\exists X \neg taller(Y, X) \wedge \neg wise(X)) \vee wise(Y)$
Existential instansiation, notice that it is in the scope of Y, and should therefore be a skolem function of X:
$\forall Y (\neg taller(Y, f(Y)) \wedge \neg wise(f(Y))) \vee wise(Y)$
Universal instansiation:
$(\neg taller(Y, f(Y)) \wedge \neg wise(f(Y))) \vee wise(Y)$
Distribute:
$(\neg taller(Y, f(Y)) \vee wise(Y)) \wedge (wise(Y) \vee \neg wise(f(Y)))$

4 )
A entails B if and only if $A \wedge \neg B$ is unsatisfiable.

## Task 9

1. $\exists x (Mouse(x) \implies (\forall y \ Cat(y) \implies Chases(y, x)))$
2. $\forall x (Flavor(x) \implies (\exists y \ Person(y) \wedge Likes(y, x)))$
3. $\neg \exists x \ (Student(x) \implies (\forall y \ Test(y) \wedge ScoredHundred(x, y)))$
4. $\exists x \ (Barber(x) \wedge (\forall y \ (Man(y) \wedge DoesNotShave(y)) \ implies Shaves(x, y))$
5. $\exists x \ (Lawyer(x) \wedge (\forall y \ Client(y, x) \implies Doctor(y)))$
