# Exam 2021 Fall

## Task 1 logic

1 ) See notes, we can see they are logically equivalent since for all models where one is true, the other is also true
It is satisfiable.

2 ) See notes

3 ) 
"A niece is a siblings daughter":
$(Sibling(x, y) \wedge Daughter(z, x)) \implies Niece(z, y)$

"Anette has at most two umbrellas":
$(HasUmbrella(x, Anette) \wedge HasUmbrella(y, Anette) \wedge HasUmbrella(z, Anette)) \implies (x = y \vee x = z \vee y = z)$

"At least one professor teaches both "Experts in Team" course and an AI course":
$\exists x \ Professor(x) \implies \exists y \ (Teaches(EiT, x) \wedge Teaches(y, x) \wedge RelatedToAI(y))$

4 ) We start with the sentence:
$\forall x \ (R(x) \implies (\forall y \ (R(y) \implies R(f(x,y))) \wedge \neg \forall y \ (S(x,y) \implies P(y))))$

First remove the implications:
$\forall x \ (\neg R(x) \vee (\forall y \ (\neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y))) \wedge \neg \forall y \ (\neg S(x,y) \vee P(y))))$

Then move negations into literals:
$\forall x \ (\neg R(x) \vee (\forall y \ (\neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y))) \wedge \exists y \ \neg(\neg S(x,y) \vee P(y))))$

$\forall x \ (\neg R(x) \vee (\forall y \ (\neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y))) \wedge \exists y \ (S(x,y) \wedge \neg P(y))))$

Standardize variables:

$\forall x \ (\neg R(x) \vee (\forall y \ (\neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y))) \wedge \exists z \ (S(x,z) \wedge \neg P(z))))$

Perform exsitenstial instanstiation:

$\forall x \ (\neg R(x) \vee (\forall y \ (\neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y))) \wedge (S(x,C) \wedge \neg P(C))))$

By now, all quantifiers are universal, and we can safely remove them:

$\neg R(x) \vee (\neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y)) \wedge (S(x,C) \wedge \neg P(C)))$

Move parantheses:
$\neg R(x) \vee (\neg R(y) \vee (R(f(x,y)) \wedge S(x,C) \wedge \neg P(C)))$

Distribute:
$\neg R(x) \vee ((\neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y))) \wedge (\neg R(y) \vee S(x, C)) \wedge (\neg R(y) \vee \neg P(C)))$

$(\neg R(x) \vee \neg R(y) \vee R(f(x,y))) \wedge (\neg R(x) \vee \neg R(y) \vee S(x,C)) \wedge (\neg R(x) \vee \neg R(y) \vee \neg P(C))$

Which is the statement in CNF

5 ) We first have to conver the sentences to CNF.

$$
\begin{aligned}
R_1: \ &\forall x, y \ (Father(x,y) \implies \neg Woman(x)) \\
&\equiv \neg Father(x, y) \vee \neg Woman(x) \\
R_2: \ &\forall x,y \ (Mother(x, y) \implies Woman(x))\\
&\equiv \neg Mother(x,y) \vee Woman(x)\\
R_3: \ &Mother(Sophie, April)
\end{aligned}
$$

We can also infer the following rule:
$R_4: \ Woman(Sophie)$

We want to find out if Sophie is not the father of Edgar, i.e is $\neg Father(Sophie, Edgar)$ true.

To solve by refutation, we negate the goal, i.e $Father(Sophie, Edgar)$, which is what we assume.

We first do resolution on $R_1$ and $R_2$, notice that we also standardize the variables:
$\neg Father(x,y) \vee \neg Woman(x) \vee \neg Mother(z,v) \vee Woman(z)$

If we use the substitution $\theta = \{x/Sophie, z/Sophie\}$ the sentence above resolves to:
$\neg Father(Sophie, y) \vee \neg Mother(Sophie, v)$

Then we use $R_3$ to do another resolution:
$\neg Father(Sophie, y) \vee \neg Mother(Sophie, v) \vee Mother(Sophie, April)$

Then, using $\theta = \{v/April\}$ as the substitution, we can resolve with the following:
$\neg Father(Sophie, y)$

Lastly we introduce our negated goal and do the last resolution:
$\neg Father(Sophie, y) \vee Father(Sophie, Edgar)$

Using the substitution $\theta = \{y/Edgar\}$ we get the empty set as the resolvent. This is a contradiction, and we have therefore proved that Sophie is in fact not the father of Edgar.

## Task 2

1 ) The list indicates the step/iteration, the frontier is a queue (fifo):

1. Expanded: A, Frontier: [S, Z]
2. Expanded: S, Frontier: [Z, R, F]
3. Expanded: Z, Frontier: [R, F, O]
4. Expanded: R, Frontier: [F, O, P]
5. Expanded: F, Frontier: [O, P, B]
6. Expanded: O, Frontier: [P, B, S]
7. Expanded: P, Frontier: [B, S, B]
8. Expanded: B, Frontier: [S, B]

The returned path is [A, S, F, B]. This is not the optimal path, we can see that the path [A, S, R, P, B] is shorter in distance, but travels through more nodes. The result is expected when using breadth-first, and it would have given an optimal solution if it was a uniform cost. But since it's not, breadth first returns the path that traverses through the fewest nodes.

2 ) Using depth first, the frontier is a stack (lifo):

1. Expanded: A, Frontier: [S, Z]
2. Expanded: S, Frontier: [R, F, Z]
3. Expanded: R, Frontier: [P, F, Z]
4. Expanded: P, Frontier: [B, F, Z]
5. Expanded: B, Frontier: [F, Z]

The returned path is [A, S, R, P, B], which for this specific search-problem is optimal. However it is not the story in the general case. With left-to-right ordering, and for this specific graph, it is expected that it finds the optimal solution, but as stated earlier, this not hold for all cases.

3 ) This also uses a stack, which holds the most promising next node.

1. Expanded: A, Frontier: [Z, S]
2. Expanded: Z, Frontier: [O, S]
3. Expanded: O, Frontier: [S]
4. Expanded: S, Frontier: [R, F]
5. Expanded: R, Frontier: [F, P]
6. Expanded: F, Frontier: [P, B]
7. Expanded: P, Frontier: [B]
8. Expanded: B, Frontier: []

The returned solution is [A, S, R, P, B]. This is the optimal solution and is also expected from uniform-cost-search when there are no negative cycles. Uniform-cost-search finds the shortest path from one node to the other in the general case.

4 )
a ) For A* to return a cost-optimal solution we need to have an admissible heuristic function. This means that the heuristic function can never overestimate the actual cost of getting to the goal.

b ) h(n) is admissible for the given graph.

c ) The frontier is a priorty queue, sorted on descending f value (f = g + h, h is heuristic value and g is cost from start to current node)

1. Expanded: A, Frontier: [S, Z]
2. Expanded: S, Frontier: [R, F, Z]
3. Expanded: R, Frontier: [F, P, Z]
4. Expanded: F, Frontier: [P, Z, B]
5. Expanded: P, Frontier: [B, Z]
6. Expanded: B, Frontier: [Z]

The returned solution is [A, S, R, P, B]. This solution is cost-optimal, as the heuristic function is admissible, and we then know that A* will give a cost-optimal solution. We can also enumerate for hand every possible path, and still find that [A, S, R, P, B] is the shortest path.

d ) With h(R) = 227:

1. Expanded: A, Frontier: [S, Z]
2. Expanded: S, Frontier: [F, R, Z]
3. Expanded: F, Frontier: [R, Z, B]
4. Expanded: R, Frontier: [P, Z, B]
5. Expanded: P, Frontier: [B, Z]
6. Expanded: B, Frontier: [Z]

The returned solution is still [A, S, R, P, B], which is the cost-optimal solutino. However, the heuristic function is not admissible.

e ) No, it is not inconsistent. In a, we argue that if the heuristic function is admissible, then we are guarenteed to find a cost-optimal solution. It is entirely possible for A* to find a cost-optimal solution while using an inadmissible heuristic function, however we are not guarenteed that it finds the cost-optimal solution with an inadmissible heuristic function.

## Task 3

X = {x1, x2, x3, x4}
D(x1) = D(x2) = D(x3) = D(x4) = {a, b, c, d, e}

2 ) 
C1: AllDiff, {x1!=x2, x1!=x3, x1!=x4, x2!=x3, x2!=x4, x3!=x4}
C2: C(x1-x2) = {1e-2a, 1a-2c, 1c-2b, 1b-2d, 1d-2c}
C3: C(x2-x3) = {2e-3a, 2a-3c, 2c-3b, 2b-3d, 2d-3c}
C4: C(x3-x4) = {3e-4a, 3a-4c, 3c-4b, 3b-4d, 3d-4c}
C5: C(x4-x2) = {4e-2a, 4a-2c, 4c-2b, 4b-2d, 4d-2c}

3 )
Choose
x1 = e
Forward checking:
D(x2) = {a}
D(x3) = {a, b, c, d}
D(x4) = {a, b, c, d}

assign x2 = a
Forwarud checking:
D(x3) = {c}
D(x4) = {}
Backtrack
\##########
Choose x1 = d
Forward checking:
D(x2) = {c}
D(x3) = {e, c, b, a}
D(x4) = {e, c, b, a}

Assign x2 = c
Forward checking:
D(x3) = {b}
D(x4) = {a}

Assign x3 = b
Forward checking:
D(x4) = {}
Backtrack
\##########
Choose x1 = c
Forward checking:
D(x2) = {b}
D(x3) = {e, d, b, a}
D(x4) = {e, d, b, a}

Assign x2 = b
Forward checking:
D(x3) = {d}
D(x4) = {}
Backtrack
\##########
Choose x1 = b
Forward checking:
D(x2) = {d}
D(x3) = {e, d, c, a}
D(x4) = {e, d, c, a}

Assign x2 = d
Forward checking:
D(x3) = {c}
D(x4) = {}
Backtrack
\###########
Choose x1 = a
Forward checking:
D(x2) = {c}
D(x3) = {e, d, c, b}
D(x4) = {e, d, c, b}

Assign x2 = c
Forward checking
D(x3) = {b}
D(x4) = {d}

Assign x3 = b
Forward checking
D(x4) = {d}

Assign x4 = d
OK

See notes for tree

## Task 4

1 ) PoP enumerates plans rather than states, which means that the order of some actions does not matter, and are considered the same. For progresseion and regression planners, you can get seamingly different plans, however the only difference is the order of some actions that (if possible) could be done in parallell. If you used PoP you would only get 1 plan, where the plan states that it does not matter which of the actions you do first. PoP are useful when you need a human readable plan. I.e in PoP it is not totally ordered.

2 ) Y
a)
Action(RightGlove,
  Precond: RightRingOn
  Effect: RightGloveOn
)
Action(LeftGlove(x),
  Precond: LeftRingOn
  Effect: LeftGloveOn
)
Action(RightRing(x),
  Precond:
  Effect: RightRingOn
)
Action(LeftRing(x),
  Precond:
  Effect: LeftRingOn
)

b ) see notes

c ) start; (LeftRing, RightRing); (LeftGlove, RightGlove); finish

## Task 5

1 )
A = 3
B = 3
C = 0
D = 2
E = 3
F = 10
G = 0
H = 6
I = 2
J = 7

Agent max has value 3.

2 )
L4 can be pruned since L3 already is high than the value in E, which means that the min-agent anyways will pick the lowest value, i.e 3, and there is no point in expanding L4.
Then H can be pruned, max of G is 0, so it already has a lower value than B, C will then be at most 0, in which case it anyways better to pick B, and we can prune H.
Lastly J can also be pruned since I is 2 which is smaller than the value for B = 3. D is at most 2, and the rest can be pruned, since the max-agent will anyways choose tree B.

## Task 6

1 ) Yes, this is an instance of the prisoners dilemma.
It is on the form
R,R  S,T
T,S  P,P
which is a PD if T>R>P>S.

2 ) Atomic representation is something very simple, a single instance. This could for example be text for identifying a node in a graph.
Factored representation adds the support for objects, and these objects can have properties and varaibles.
Structured representation has objects and also the relation between objects. Atomic representation is often used in search-algorithms. Factored representation is used for logic, CSP and planning. Structured representation is used for first order logic.

3 )



