# Exam 2020 Resit

## Task 1

a)

$$
P \wedge Q \\
P \\
--- \\
P \implies \neg (Q \wedge R) \\
\neg (Q \vee R)\\
\neg Q \vee \neg R \\
(\neg Q \wedge Q) \vee \neg R
\neg R \\
---\\
S \implies R \\
\neg R \implies \neg S \\
\neg S \\
$$

b) See notes. Need to find a row with all 1s. Then all is true.
c) Need to convert to CNF. (1) is in CNF, convert (2) and (3):
(2):
Remove implication:
$\neg P \vee \neg (Q \wedge R)$
Move negation to literals
$\neg P \vee \neg Q \vee \neg R$
It is now in CNF.

(3):
Remove implication:
$\neg S \vee R$
it is now in CNF.

We then negate the goal: $S$.

We can fist use (1) and (2):
$P \vee Q \vee \neg P \vee \neg Q \vee \neg R$
which we can resolve twice to become:
$\neg R$
Then we use (3):
$\neg R \vee \neg S \vee R$
which resolves to:
$\neg S$
Finally we use resolution with the negated goal:
$\neg S \vee S$
which resolves to the empty clause which is a contradiction and we have therefore proved that $\neg S$ is true.

d)
First convert to CNF, (1) and (2) are already in CNF, so we convert (3):
First we split up equivalance:
$$
\forall x \ (\\
  Green(x) \implies Bikes(x) \vee [\exists y : Drives(x,y) \wedge Electric(y)]\\
  \wedge
  Bikes(x) \vee [\exists y : Drives(x,y) \wedge Electric(y)] \implies Green(x)\\
)
$$

Remove implications

$$
\forall x \ (\\
  \neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x) \vee [\exists y : Drives(x,y) \wedge Electric(y)]\\
  \wedge
  \neg (Bikes(x) \vee [\exists y : Drives(x,y) \wedge Electric(y)]) \vee Green(x)\\
)
$$

Move negation to literals:
$$
\forall x \ (\\
  \neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x) \vee [\exists y : Drives(x,y) \wedge Electric(y)]\\
  \wedge
  \neg Bikes(x) \wedge \neg [\exists y : Drives(x,y) \wedge Electric(y)] \vee Green(x)\\
)
$$

$$
\forall x \ (\\
  \neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x) \vee [\exists y : Drives(x,y) \wedge Electric(y)]\\
  \wedge
  \neg Bikes(x) \wedge [\forall y : \neg Drives(x,y) \vee \neg Electric(y)] \vee Green(x)\\
)
$$

Now introduce skolem functions:
$$
\forall x \ (\\
  \neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x) \vee [Drives(x,f(x)) \wedge Electric(f(x))]\\
  \wedge
  \neg Bikes(x) \wedge [\forall y : \neg Drives(x,y) \vee \neg Electric(y)] \vee Green(x)\\
)
$$

Now safe for universal instansiation:
$$
\neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x) \vee [Drives(x,f(x)) \wedge Electric(f(x))]\\
\wedge
\neg Bikes(x) \wedge [\neg Drives(x,y) \vee \neg Electric(y)] \vee Green(x)\\
$$

Distribution:
$$
(\neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x) \vee Drives(x,f(x))) \wedge (Electric(f(x)) \vee \neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x))\\
\wedge
\neg Bikes(x) \wedge (\neg Drives(x,y) \vee \neg Electric(y) \vee Green(x))\\
$$

Which gives the set of conjunctions:
$\neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x) \vee Drives(x,f(x))$
$Electric(f(x)) \vee \neg Green(x) \vee Bikes(x)$
$\neg Drives(x,y) \vee \neg Electric(y) \vee Green(x)$
$\neg Bikes(x)$

Now we can start by negating the goal: $\neg Green(Sophie)$
And we can use (2) and (3):
$\neg Drives(x,y) \vee \neg Electric(y) \vee Green(x) \vee Drives(Sophie, Tesla)$
And make the substitution $\theta = \{x/Sophie, y/Tesla\}$ it resolves to:
$\neg Electric(Tesla) \vee Green(Sophie)$
Then we can use (1):
$\neg Electric(Tesla) \vee Green(Sophie) \vee Electric(Tesla)$
which resolves to:
$Green(Sophie)$
Then we can resolute with the negated goal:
$Green(Sophie) \vee \neg Green(Sophie)$
which resolves to the empty clause and we have proven that Sophie is in fact green.

## Task 2

a) Uniform-Cost-Search

Expanded: S, Frontier: [A, D, B], Closed: []
Expanded: A, Frontier: [D, B, G1], Closed: [S]
Expanded: D, Frontier: [B, C, E, G1], Closed: [S, A]
Expanded: B, Frontier: [C, E, G1], Closed: [S, A, D]
Expanded: C, Frontier: [E, G2, G1, F], Closed: [S, A, D, B]
Expanded: E, Frontier: [G2, G1, F, G3], Closed: [S, A, D, B, C]
Expanded: G2, Frontier: [G1, F, G3], Closed: [S, A, D, B, C, E]

The returned path is S-D-C-G2. This is the optimal solution for reaching G2.

b) Breadth-first
Expanded nodes are:
S-A-G1 with early goal test at A. For reaching G1 this is the optimal path, however it is not the optimal path if you can reach any goal.

c) Depth first
Expanded nodes are:
S-A-B-C-F-D-E-G3
This is not the optimal path.

d) A*
Expanded: S, Frontier: [A, B, D], Closed: []
Expanded: A, Frontier: [B, D, G1], Closed: [S]
Expanded: B(A), Frontier: [D, C, G1], Closed: [S, A]
Expanded: D, Frontier: [C, E, G1], Closed: [S, A, B]
Expanded: C(D), Frontier: [E, G2, G1, F], Closed: [S, A, B, D]
Expanded: E, Frontier: [G2, G1, G3, F], Closed: [S, A, B, D, C]
Expanded: G2, Frontier: [G1, G3, F], Closed: [S, A, B, D, C, E]

The returned path is S-D-C-G2, which is the optimal path.

## Task 3

Words:
astar, happy, hello, hoses, live, load, loom, peal, peel, save, talk, anon, nerd, tine, ant, oak, old, ten, run.

a) The variables are 1-across (V1), 2-down (V2), 3-down (V3) and 4-across (V4). They represent a single word to be placed.

b) There are 9 constraints in the problem, 4 of which are binary, 4 unary and 1 n-ary.
C1: AllDiff(V1, V2, V3, V4)
C2: C(V1-V2) = {ThirdLetter(V1) = FirstLetter(V2)}
C3: C(V1-V3) = {LastLetter(V1) = FirstLetter(V3)}
C4: C(V2-V4) = {ThirdLetter(V2) = SecondLetter(V4)}
C5: C(V3-V4) = {LastLetter(V3) = LastLetter(V4)}
C6: C(V1) = {Length(V1) = 5}
C7: C(V2) = {Length(V2) = 4}
C8: C(V3) = {Length(V3) = 3}
C9: C(V4) = {Length(V4) = 4}

c)
D(V1) = {astar, hello}
D(V2) = {load, loom, tine}
D(V3) = {old, run}
D(V4) = {load, anon}

e) It does not find a solution because while looking at the constraints in isolation it not enough information to infer what the solution should be, and we need to perform backtracking-search. It specifically does not come to a conclusion because there are 2 solutions to the problem.

## Task 4

a)
a = 7
b = 7
c = 2
d = 7
e = 11
f = 4
g = 2
h = 7
i = 6
j = 11
k = 10
l = 4
m = 3
n = 1
o = 2

The max-agent has value 7 (choosing action b).

b) x4, k, x12, g

## Task 5

a)

|i\j|0|10|20|30|40|50
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0|40, 0|0, 30|0, 30|0, 30|0, 30|0, 30|
|10|40, 0|30, 0|0, 20|0, 20|0, 20|0, 20|
|20|40, 0|30, 0|20, 0|0, 10|0, 10|0, 10|
|30|40, 0|30, 0|20, 0|10, 0|0, 0|0, 0|
|40|40, 0|30, 0|20, 0|10, 0|0, 0|0, -10|
|50|40, 0|30, 0|20, 0|10, 0|0, 0|-10, 0|

b) There is no strongly dominant equilibrium because many rows has the same value in it's columns (for agent i) and many columns has the same value in its rows (agent j). No strongly dominant strategy can be formed since they are greater or equal, and not strongly greater.

c) There are no weakly dominant strategy equilibriums either. We are close if agent i does 30 or 40, and agent j does 30 or 40, but in each of these two cases none of the rows/columns are weakly dominant. They give in fact exactly the same payoff, which means that the condition of having at least one column (for agent i) that is strongly greater than every other row in the same column. The same goes for agent j.

d) Nothing is deleted.
e) For agent i: 30 and 40
For agent j: 30 and 40.
Agent i notices that action 30 and 40 for agent j weakly dominates every other action, and deletes those. Then agent j notices the same for agent i and deletes the actions.

f) There is not a single solution.